---
title: 'EPFLx: Cavity Quantum Optomechanics'
date: 2021-07-10
permalink: /posts/2021-07-10-EPFLx/
tags:
  - classical dynamics
  - quantum dynamics
  - quantum correlations
---

Optomechanics is the study of the interaction between light and mechanical systems which can result in the manipulation of the state of both light and the mechanics. The nature of this interaction makes it interesting for a wide range of applications in both fundamental physics and technological advancements.

# Optical and mechanical resonators

The physics of harmonic oscillators at a classical level is reviewed. In order to have a better understanding of the design and analysis of the micro- and nano-mechanical systems, this part introduces the basics of the theory of elasticity as well as dissipation and loss mechanisms in these systems. Finally, the mathematical description of noise, thermal fluctuations and Brownian motion of harmonic resonators is reviewed.

* Basics of cavities and resonators
* Basics of elasticity
* Mechanical dissipation and losses
* Stochastic processes and Brownian motion

# Classical dynamics

The classical dynamics of optomechanical systems is introduced. First focus is on quantifying the coupling between optics and mechanics through the radiation pressure force, then deriving the equations of motion for a generic optomechanical system and arising dynamical effects as a result of the coupling. In the last section the quantization of harmonic oscillator is reviewed, as it is essential for studying the quantum mechanical dynamics of optomechanical system which is the topic of the following section.

* Optomechanical coupling and equations of motion
* Dynamical backaction
* Nonlinear dynamics
* Quantization of harmonic oscillator

# Quantum dynamics

Begining to study the quantum mechanical dynamics of optomechanical systems, this section starts out by reviewing the quantum optical description of a cavity coupled to an environment and an output field. It then introduces the Hamiltonian of an optomechanical system and the corresponding quantum mechanical equations of motion. Finally, it includes two effects in optomechanical systems in an standard quantum mechanical formalism: strong coupling regime and optomechanically induced transparency.

* Quantum optics of a cavity
* Optomechanical Hamiltonian and quantum Langevin equations
* Quantum theory of optomechanical cooling
* Strong coupling regime
* Optomechanically induced transparency (OMIT)

# Quantum correlations
This section introduces the role of quantum correlations in cavity quantum optomechanical system measurements. First, we review homodyne detection, as it is an important tool for measuring the correlations between light quadratures. Then we study interferometric displacement measurement and its quantum limit: the standard quantum limit (SQL). Then we review the properties of squeezed states of light and their application in gravitational wave detectors for beating SQL. Moreover, we show how optomechanical interaction can result in the generation of squeezed light. Finally, we talk about entanglement, its general definitions and measures and how quantum correlations can give rise to entanglement in cavity optomechanical systems.

* Homodyne detection
* Displacement sensing and the standard quantum limit
* Squeezed light and applications in gravitational wave detection
* Optomechanical squeezing
* Entanglement in cavity optomechanical systems

# Quantum correlations
This final section includes a few topics related to experimental realization of cavity optomechanical systems. First, we study a broad overview of different experimental cavity optomechanics platforms. Then we discuss photonic crystals, which is one of the most important and widely used experimental platforms for realizing optomechanical systems. Finally, we learn an overview of micro- and nanofabrication methods as well as finite element simulations, which are both at the heart of any micro- or nano-scale cavity optomechanics experiment.

* Experimental platforms
* Photonic crystals
* Fabrication methods
* Finite element simulations

------

See [valid certificate](https://courses.edx.org/certificates/65f4f7eb19b9423dbc947b373689a192)
