---
title: "Coupling Capacitively Distinct Mechanical Resonators for Room-Temperature Phonon-Cavity Electromechanics"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-09-09-phonon-cavity
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-09-09
venue: 'Nano Letters'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Pokharel, A., Xu, H., Venkatachalam, S., et al. (2022). Capacitively coupled distinct mechanical resonators for room temperature phonon-cavity electromechanics. Nano Letters, 22 (18), 7351-7357.'
---

See [paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c01848)

## Abstract

Coupled electromechanical resonators that can be independently driven/detected and easily integrated with 
external circuits are essential for exploring mechanical modes based signal processing and multifunctional
integration. One of the main challenges lies in controlling energy transfers between distinct resonators 
experiencing nanoscale displacements. Here, we present a room temperature electromechanical system that 
mimics a “phonon-cavity”, in analogy with optomechanics. It consists in a silicon nitride membrane capacitively 
coupled to an aluminum drum-head resonator. We demonstrate electromechanically induced transparency and 
amplification through manipulating the mechanical displacements of this coupled system, creating interferences
in the measured signal. The anti-damping effects, generated byphonon-cavity force, have been observed in both 
movable objects. We develop an analytical model that captures the analoguous optomechanical features in the 
classical limit and enables to fit quantitatively the measurements. Our results open up new possibilities
for building compact and multifunctional mechanical systems, and exploring phonon−phonon coupling based optomechanics.
